[AUDIO LOGO]
[THEME MUSIC]
>>EMERY SMITH: Today
on Cosmic Disclosure,
we're with Richard Doty, a
retired Special Agent who
served in the Air Force Office
of Special Investigations.
Richard was intimately
involved with UFO
ET-related intelligence.
Today we discuss
Project Nile Dawn.
Richard, welcome to the show.
>>RICHARD DOTY: Thank you,
Emery, Good to be here.
>>EMERY: What is
operation Nile Dawn?
>>DOTY: It was an operation that
the United States government
and the British government
formed many years ago
to examine the strange
occurrences that they determined
and found at the different
pyramids in the Sudan and Egypt.
In 1928, a British Army
officer in the rank of Colonel,
Reginald Blumenthal was
exploring the pyramids
in Egypt, him and
a group of people.
And this was after World War I.
But there was some interests
by the German government
back in those days
with those pyramids
and what is now today, Sudan.
Back in 1928, Egypt was a colony
of the British government.
And during that time period,
Sudan was part of that colony.
Today, the country is
Sudan, a different country.
Colonel Blumenthal started
exploring the lower
part of the Nile area,
which is the Sudan,
and he found these pyramids.
They're all unnamed
back in those days.
Most of them were unexplored.
And a lot of those pyramids
back in that 1928 era
weren't finished.
They were started, but
they never finished them.
So he got very interested
in these pyramids.
So his crew and him
started exploring.
And at one particular
pyramid, which was unnamed,
he found an entrance that
went down underground.
And so he followed that.
And he went deeper and deeper
and found a tunnel system.
He thought that was very strange
because the little he knew
about pyramids was
that they were created
centuries and centuries ago.
So he kept going and going.
And finally, he
found a flat area
where something had occurred.
He found, what he
thought were coffins,
some metal and some ceramic or
some other type of substance.
And he found some torches
that had been burnt.
And so as he started
exploring that area,
lighting some of these torches,
he found this ring, a big ring.
And didn't know
what it was, but saw
this strange writing, these
strange symbols on this ring.
So then he, and another
person, walked through it
to look at the other side.
and lo and behold, they got
into some other severe--
as if they walked into
another dimension.
>>EMERY: And this
ring, so the audience
knows, we're talking
like what diameter.
>>DOTY: It's probably
25 feet in diameter.
And--
>>EMERY: And the sphere
was even larger than that.
>>DOTY: As they
walked into it, it
was like a new world, as
he explained in his diary.
It was like a new world.
And he couldn't
figure out how he
got from one place in
a closed sarcophagus
almost, into this open area.
>>EMERY: Is this a
portal of some sort?
>>EMERY: Well, today we would
call it a portal or a stargate.
I think we would refer to
it today as a stargate.
>>EMERY: Stargate.
>>DOTY: But back in
those days, in 1928--
>>EMERY: They didn't know.
>>DOTY: --it wasn't-- no.
They didn't know what it was.
But when he walked into it, it
was as if he was in a new world.
It was an open area,
plush pastures.
He sees a river, which he
assumed to be the Nile,
and he sees almost a movie
occurring showing people
building these pyramids.
And he's in there, he
thinks, for maybe an hour,
but when he comes out, he's
been there for three days.
He's been for over 72
hours because the crew
that he came with were scared.
They got out of that tunnel
and got out into the open
because they thought that they
ended up on some other side.
>>EMERY: Or swallowed them up.
>>DOTY: Or swallowed them up.
And so-- but three days
later, they come back out.
>>EMERY: How many of
the team went with him?
>>DOTY: Only two.
>>EMERY: Only two.
>>DOTY: But there were
six other team members.
It was eight total.
And so those other six
left, but they stayed up
in the area outside where
they had an encampment.
And eventually,
three days later,
the Colonel and his
assistant come back out.
And he talks of this new
world that they found,
and that he knows now how
these pyramids were built.
He knows where they are located.
He knows that there's tunnels
under each one of them.
And he sees these
strange-looking beings,
and this is in his diary,
strange-looking beings that
are probably not from Earth.
Now, he says this in his diary.
And this is 1928.
So then decide to
make another camp.
They had to go get supplies
to come back because they only
had enough supplies for
a few days or a week,
or something like that.
But they did and they
brought more people back.
This time they brought
back some local people.
And they tried to explain
through an interpreter
to these local people
what they had found.
And these local
people didn't want
any part of going down there.
They seemed to be aware of
maybe the rumors or the legends
about this particular tunnel.
But the Colonel didn't.
He wasn't afraid to go back.
So he went back with another
person, a different person,
not the same that he
went the first time.
So they go down there.
This time they're prepared.
They have supplies, they
have water, they have things.
Because although they saw
water going through there,
they didn't know if they
should drink it or not.
Anyways, they walked through.
This time, he's closer to where
they're building a pyramid.
He sees these strange things in
the sky that are flying around
with these large bricks.
He's stumped.
He can't understand what these
things are that are flying.
Although during
that time period,
there were airplanes,
conventional airplanes--
>>EMERY: 1928.
>>DOTY: Single engine
airplanes in the 1920s.
We had them during
World War I, but they
didn't look like any of
those type of aircrafts.
And remember, he's
a British Colonel
and he'd been through war
and he knew airplanes.
He'd been through World War
I, but he couldn't understand,
he couldn't rationalize what
these other things were.
>>EMERY: And they're
holding these giant blocks.
>>DOTY: Right.
And it's like a movie.
He sees these things happening.
And he watches this
pyramid being built.
But he also sees
this underground area
where there's
tunnels and there are
vast amount of people working
in certain tasks down there.
Some people are
baking, some people
are doing some kind of work,
like a painting or a carpentry
work.
And then some are lying down on
what he refers to as a conveyor
belt. And these bodies are
like moving in to this tunnel.
So he's down there for about
a week, he's estimating.
When he comes out, now
he has a story to tell.
He documents all
this in his diary.
>>EMERY: If he was a week
down there, when he got back,
was he gone for four weeks?
Did he say?
>>DOTY: No, he came back
and it was a week missing.
Missing time for a week.
>>EMERY: OK.
>>DOTY: And then he goes back.
He goes-- eventually
gets back to the UK
and he tells his
story to a society.
And none of them believe him.
They didn't believe it.
They didn't believe a word
he said, even though he
had a witness, two
witnesses because he brought
two different people-- took
two different people in there.
So they said, no, we
don't believe you.
>>EMERY: That's terrible.
>>DOTY: It is impossible.
What you say is not feasible.
But he keeps this.
Now jump ahead to 1940.
He tells his story to an
American army officer.
And now this
American army officer
is very interested
in going there.
He said, well, take me there.
I'll fund it.
We'll get money, we'll go
down there, and we'll do it.
He goes back there, but
it's difficult to find
this same place again because--
>>EMERY: 20 some years later.
>>DOTY: Yeah, because
remember, sandstorms
cover up entrances,
especially lower entrances.
So it takes them a long time
to find this other entrance.
They finally find the
entrance and they go down,
and it's there.
But there's a lot of sand
all around this area.
And he continues to call,
although it's probably
not a sarcophagus,
he calls it that.
Although, there
is an exit to it.
In his diary.
And so he tells the
other-- the American army
officer who was a colonel, do
you want to go through that?
Absolutely.
Let's go.
And they walk through it.
This time, things
are a lot different.
He sees things differently
than he did 12 years before.
>>EMERY: Yeah, right, 12 years.
>>DOTY: And these
pyramids are built,
but he still sees these
strange things flying around.
And he couldn't figure
out what they were
and nor could the
American Colonel.
What are they?
Well, they're UFOs or
we would say now today,
they're UAPs or UFOs flying.
And that, obviously they're
assisting in the building
of these pyramids.
That would be the summation
I would end up with.
They stay down there
for a long time in this.
And they travel.
The British Colonel didn't
really move around much,
but this Army Colonel says,
let's just move around.
Let's just hike
through these valleys
and go next to the water.
And then they all
of a sudden they
start encountering
people, humans.
>>EMERY: And they
could see them.
>>DOTY: And they could see them.
>>EMERY: They could
see each other, I mean.
>>DOTY: They could
see each other.
And they were scared.
The people in this
stargate were scared
to death of the intruders
that came in the stargate.
They would see him and
they would run away.
They would avoid him.
And so they finally
actually capture
one guy, a boy, a young boy, and
they trying to talk to the boy.
Now, neither one of them could
speak Egyptian or the old text,
so they couldn't communicate,
but they set him at ease
making him realize that they
weren't going to harm him.
So they wanted to bring him
back through the stargate
and he was hesitant, but
eventually he was brought back
through the stargate.
And as he came out of the
stargate, he instantly aged,
which horrified these two men.
And they start now thinking
that what they are going to,
and he referred this into in
his diary, as a devil's ring.
Now, it's a devil's ring
because this person came out
and he's aging.
And he doesn't die,
but he just ages.
In there, he's a
14-year-old boy.
Outside, he's an
80-year-old man.
So they didn't really
know what to do other
than let him go back inside.
But he walked back
in without them
going into seeing
whether he had changed.
So they wanted to
stay down there longer
but, of course, the war
occurred and the Germans
moved into Egypt at that time.
And actually, some of the first
episode of "Indiana Jones"
about what the Germans
did is factual.
That stuff is
factual in history.
So they had to leave.
And they didn't come back.
Blumenthal had died, but
the Army Colonel didn't.
But the Army Colonel later
worked at the war department
before the Pentagon and then
eventually the Pentagon.
And he told his story
to many people in there.
Now, a lot of people
started rationalizing
what these things flying
were something that
might have crashed in Roswell.
Now they're putting these two
together because now this is
the 1950s.
So he suggested, this
army who is now--
the Army General is now
a Brigadier General.
I mean, he was an Army Colonel.
Now he's a Brigadier General.
>>EMERY: Who's going
to call him a liar?
>>DOTY: Yeah, he's going to
say, let's take an expedition
back there.
And this one, the modern day
expedition went back to the Nile
Valley, they call it.
Operation Nile Dawn.
And they started exploring what
was in the diary of the British
Colonel Blumenthal.
And what they found?
They found artifacts.
Now, back in those days,
there wasn't tourists.
There wasn't any
organization of the history
or the historical
value of the pyramids,
both in Sudan and in Egypt.
There were some explorations
by the Egyptians.
The Cairo University did some
things, but not to the extent
that they're doing today
or what is occurring today
in this century.
So what they did was
they went back there
and they started exploring.
>>EMERY: What other artifacts
did the military find there?
Really, what was the
agenda to go out there?
To see the stargate again?
>>DOTY: Primary mission
was to find the stargate
or find this devil's ring,
as it was noted in the diary.
So they tried in
vain to find it,
and there wasn't
anybody they could
find that had went back
there with the Colonel,
other than this Colonel
who is now a general.
But he didn't have coordinates
or anything like that.
They tried a number of
different areas, which
is around the Sudan, but they
couldn't find the right place.
So they went to some other
pyramids along the way.
And that's where they found
another entrance thinking that
was the same entrance
that they found in 1940.
But as they went
down there, they
realized it wasn't the same.
But they found all
these artifacts deep
under this one particular
pyramid, at that
time didn't have a name.
And these artifacts
that they located,
that they could
pick up and look at,
didn't appear to be
anything Egyptian.
Some of these artifacts
were figurines
of these beings that had huge
heads with helmets, arms, one
with a weapon, and
these were figurines.
And they couldn't figure out--
they knew that during the
Egyptian rules of thousands
of years ago, they
didn't have rifles,
they didn't have
weapons like that.
So where could these
things have come from?
And of course, knowing
that there was something
that crashed in Roswell
and we knew something
about possible
extraterrestrials,
and the General had
been briefed on that,
he then figured
that they were gifts
given to the Egyptians
by the extraterrestrials.
And that's what they took out of
there, took back to be analyzed.
The artifacts came directly
from an extraterrestrial race
as a gift to the
Egyptians, maybe
for helping them build
pyramids or whatever reason.
We couldn't figure it out.
>>EMERY: Other than those gifts,
did you see any technology?
Did you bring back
any technology?
Was there any technology
they found that was
extraterrestrial,
maybe that they studied
and were able to activate?
>>DOTY: Later on, and this
was another expedition
in the '60s, I believe
it was the middle '60s.
This was when the
Central Intelligence
Agency became involved.
The CIA sent their
own people down there,
their own archaeologists, their
own Egyptian archaeologists,
and they went into some
other underground caverns,
deep, deep to find
this tunnel system that
were miles and miles long.
In fact, they weren't prepared
for anything like that.
But what they found was one
item that was somewhat square
and it had figures on it
that they couldn't figure out
what these figures were.
And it was small and it had
something like an antenna on it,
almost something like an old
brick phone, a cell phone.
And they took it back.
Finally, eventually got
it back to the United
states, sent it to a couple
different laboratories,
and one particular
laboratory got it to turn on.
>>EMERY: Oh my goodness.
>>DOTY: And so there
was a power source.
Now what it was used for, maybe
a communications device or maybe
something else, maybe
some kind of a scanner,
these are some ideas, but it was
powered, still being powered.
Now, if this thing
was 2,000 or 3,000,
or maybe even 4,000 years old,
how could anything maintain
power for that period of time?
Well, something that
we wanted to know
and wanted to try
to reverse engineer.
>>EMERY: Right.
Harvesting that energy.
>>DOTY: Exactly.
So that thing is sitting
on some shelf, probably
at Los Alamos or
Sandia right now.
>>EMERY: They found
these tunnels,
and we're talking pretty large
tunnels, I believe, right?
>>DOTY: Yeah, there
were tunnels big enough
to drive motorized
vehicles in them.
>>EMERY: And
eventually, could you
tell us where did
these tunnels lead to?
>>DOTY: These tunnels led
under every single current day
pyramid.
I think if you look in
Egyptian literature,
there's 118 pyramids, but these
tunnels led to at least 60
of them.
Every one of them
had these tunnels.
And these tunnels led
under these pyramids.
And then there was exits
that you could then
venture outside into the pyramid
that was above that tunnel.
And there were a number of
caverns under there where
they found things stored, food.
One particular area
under one pyramid,
they had rice, tons and
tons of rice and honey.
Containers of honey.
And that's--
>>EMERY: Still viable.
>>DOTY: And still viable.
I don't know about the rice,
but they took the honey back
and found it, after 1,000 years,
the honey is still viable.
And that really shocked me.
>>EMERY: Yes, I was reading
a report in Los Alamos,
they were testing that honey.
Even to this day,
they keep testing it
for some reason for
something, I don't
know, for maybe some healing
properties or magical properties
of some sort.
Let's talk about that
tunnel that went under Giza.
>>DOTY: There was a
tunnel under Giza.
That was the most
advanced tunnel system,
not just because of
the different caverns
within that tunnel
system, but the structure
and the construction
of this tunnel system.
It was far more advanced
than any others.
>>EMERY: Were they like
lava tubes, Richard,
or did he explain it was
like rock on these tunnels?
What was the makeup?
>>DOTY: There they were created.
They were structured.
There were brick
tunnels that you could
see that they were constructed.
But one of the questions
that was asked,
and I don't know that
they answered it,
was how could some Egyptian
civilization 4,000 years ago
construct this complicated
tunnel system with bricks
in the exact same place?
The diameters are perfect for
movement of big things inside.
And they didn't have vehicles
back then, but they had sleds.
And maybe if the
extraterrestrials
created these tunnels,
the extraterrestrials
had some kind of craft, maybe
a motor craft or some craft--
battery-powered craft that
could move within these tunnels
because there were
hundreds of miles long.
And they're so complex,
but this one under Giza
was extremely complex.
And it had hundreds and hundreds
and hundreds of chambers.
And this is below.
The pyramids up here, all those
other chambers are up here.
This is under the pyramids,
hundreds of feet down.
700, 800 feet down,
I think, they're
estimating the
depth of these are.
In the '60s, the CIA
archaeologists took pictures
and so forth and probably movie
pictures and presented them
to construction
engineers, asking them,
how would you make
something like that?
And they said, well, we
would have to dig that out,
which would take years, and we'd
have to bring all that stuff in,
it would take more years.
He said we could
probably build something
like that in 15 or 20 years.
>>EMERY: The question
is, what came first,
the tunnels or the pyramid?
>>DOTY: That's the
question that I asked.
When I heard this information
and talking to the person that
had access to it, that's
the first thing I said, was,
did they build the
tunnels first or did
they build the pyramids first?
Who knows?
>>EMERY: No one knows.
>>DOTY: But the
extraterrestrials
or the Egyptians who are
probably long dead now,
I don't know.
>>EMERY: Did they
find any spacecraft
or extraterrestrial craft?
>>DOTY: Yes, they
did find one in Giza.
It was not a very
big one, but they
found one that had
certainly got in there
and they couldn't figure out
how it got in there because it
was in this cavern
that's hundreds of feet
under this pyramid and
there's no really exit points
except for these tunnels.
And these tunnels
weren't wide enough
or big enough for this craft to
be buried there or end up there.
So they don't know how
they got it in there.
And one of the problems
is trying to get it out.
They tried to disassemble
it, but we didn't
have any tools to do that.
>>EMERY: What did it look like?
>>DOTY: It was probably a
10-foot diameter spacecraft.
Actually, it was more oval
shaped than round shape.
They were able to get in
it because the bottom part
of the hatch was open.
There wasn't anything
on the bottom of it.
So obviously, it probably
ended up there, maybe crashed
or was disabled and they didn't
want to get it out of there
or repair it.
But you could go inside that.
And there was people that, CIA
scientists that got inside there
and looked at it
and took pictures.
But I don't know what
they found because that
would have been something
entirely different
in classification.
>>EMERY: And where
is that craft now?
>>DOTY: Still there.
>>EMERY: So what conclusion
did the US government make
in regards to the pyramids?
>>DOTY: Well, that
was highly classified,
but they came to the conclusion
that the pyramids were
built or assisted being built
by the extraterrestrials.
They weren't built by Egyptians.
There's no way in the world
they could manufacture pyramids
or an underground tunnel
system that was found.
They just didn't
have the technology
or the know-how of
their engineering
to build something like that.
So they figured that the
extraterrestrials came down,
whatever race it was, and
built the tunnel system first
for them, and then
eventually assisted them.
Maybe there was some
assistance with the Egyptians,
but they built these pyramids
for a particular reason.
And one particular pyramid had
some type of a sundial on top
of it when they first
found it in the '40s.
I think they removed it or
somehow that was removed.
And so another thing they found,
some of the pyramids in Mexico
align directly with
these pyramids in Egypt.
And therefore, they
come to the conclusion
that the pyramids in Egypt
and the pyramids in Mexico
were built by the
same civilization.
>>EMERY: Once again, Richard,
it's a very fascinating story.
And I'm so glad you got
to review that diary.
Thank you so much for
being on the show.
>>DOTY: Thank you Emery.
It was a pleasure.
>>EMERY: I'm Emery Smith and
this is Cosmic Disclosure.
Until next time.
[THEME MUSIC]